DOCS-5000 Java Module update (#371)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: modules/ROOT/pages/java/java-reference.adoc

= Java Module Reference - Mule 4
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Support Category: Select

Java Module v1.2

Java Module MuleSoft Extension, used to invoke Java code.

== Configurations
---
[[config]]
=== Default Configuration

Default configuration.

==== Parameters

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
|Name | String | The name for this configuration. Connectors reference the configuration with this name. | | x
|===

== Operations

* <<invoke>>
* <<invokeStatic>>
* <<new>>
* <<validateType>>

[[invoke]]
=== Invoke

`<java:invoke>`

> Invoke methods with the provided arguments in an instance. The identifier of the method to invoke includes the class and method names, being the method a full description of its signature including the types of each parameter. 

Reviewer: Missing text/incompatibility between the first part of the second sentence and its second part. Please reread to evaluate.

> For example, to invoke the `echo` method with the signature `public String echo(String msg)` that belongs to `Class org.bar.Me`, then the identifier of the method is `echo(String)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to invoke the `echo` method with the signature `public String echo(String msg)` that belongs to `Class org.bar.Me`, use the method identifier `echo(String)`.
```

==== Parameters

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Instance a| Any |  The instance on which the method is invoked. |  | x
| Args a| Object |  The arguments used to invoke a method. |  |
| Class a| String |  Represents the fully qualified name of the class containing the referenced method. |  | x

> | Method a| String |  Represents the method signature containing the method name and its argument types. For example, for the method with signature, `public String log(String msg, boolean verbose)`, then the identifier of the method is `log(String, boolean)` |  | x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Method a| String |  Represents the method signature, containing the method name and its argument types. For example, for the method with signature `public String log(String msg, boolean verbose)`, the identifier of the method is `log(String, boolean)` |  | x
```

| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable in which to place the operation's output. |  |

> | Target Value a| String |  An expression to evaluate against the operation's output, and to store the outcome of that expression in the target variable. |  #[payload] |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Target Value a| String |  An expression to evaluate against the operation's output and store the outcome of that expression in the target variable. |  #[payload] |
```

|===

==== Output

[cols=".^50%,.^50%"]
|===
| *Type* a| Any
|===

==== Throws

* JAVA:ARGUMENTS_MISMATCH
* JAVA:CLASS_NOT_FOUND
* JAVA:INVOCATION
* JAVA:NO_SUCH_METHOD
* JAVA:WRONG_INSTANCE_CLASS

[[invokeStatic]]
=== Invoke Static

`<java:invoke-static>`

> Operation that allows the user to invoke static methods with the provided arguments. The identifier of the method to be invoked includes the class and method names, being the method a full description of its signature including the types of each parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An operation that allows the user to invoke static methods with the provided arguments. The identifier of the method to be invoked includes the class and method names, being the method a full description of its signature including the types of each parameter. 
```
The second sentence needs rewording, because it does not make grammatical sense. This same sentence is questioned in an edit comment above.

> For example, to invoke the static method `echo` with signature `public static String echo(String msg)` that belongs to `Class org.bar.Me`, then the identifier of the method is `echo(String)`.

Reviewer: ditto edit to similar sentence used above (fixing grammar):
```suggestion
For example, to invoke the static method `echo` with signature `public static String echo(String msg)` that belongs to `Class org.bar.Me`, use the method identifier `echo(String)`.
```
("to invoke...use the....")

==== Parameters

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required

> | Args a| Object |  The arguments used to invoke the given Method. |  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Args a| Object |  The arguments used to invoke the given method. |  |
```

> | Class a| String |  Represents the fully qualified name of the Class containing the referenced Method. |  | x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Class a| String |  Represents the fully qualified name of the Class containing the referenced Method. |  | x
```
```suggestion
| Class a| String |  Represents the fully qualified name of the class containing the referenced method. |  | x
```
These are not proper nouns.

> | Method a| String |  Represents the Method signature containing the method name and its argument types. For example, for the method with signature `public static String log(String msg, boolean verbose)`, then the identifier of the method is `log(String, boolean)`. |  | x

Reviewer: ditto capitalization edits; GLOBAL. I will not continue to mark them here. Also, 
```suggestion
| Method a| String |  Represents the method signature, containing the method name and its argument types. For example, the identifer of the method with signature `public static String log(String msg, boolean verbose)` is `log(String, boolean)`. |  | x
```
Grammar. I am guessing that this and previous similar sentences were written by a nonnative English writer?

| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable in which to place the operation's output. |  |

> | Target Value a| String |  An expression to evaluate against the operation's output, and to store the outcome of that expression in the target variable. |  #[payload] |

Reviewer: ditto prev. edit to this same sentence earlier

|===

==== Output

[cols=".^50%,.^50%"]
|===
| *Type* a| Any
|===

==== Throws

* JAVA:CLASS_NOT_FOUND
* JAVA:ARGUMENTS_MISMATCH
* JAVA:INVOCATION
* JAVA:WRONG_INSTANCE_CLASS
* JAVA:NO_SUCH_METHOD

[[new]]
=== New

`<java:new>`

Create a new instance of a class. 

> The identifier of a Constructor includes the class and constructor names, and the constructor has a full description of its signature including the types of each parameter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The identifier of a constructor includes the class and constructor names, and the constructor content includes a full description of its signature, including the types of each parameter. 
```

> For example, to invoke the constructor `Me(String name, int age)` which belongs to the `org.bar.Me` class, then the identifier of the method is `Me(String,int)`.

Reviewer: ditto previous edits to the same type of sentence used earlier

==== Parameters

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required

> | Args a| Object |  The arguments used to invoke the given Constructor |  |

Reviewer: Ditto GLOBAL capitalization edits

Reviewer: Also, end with period.

| Class a| String |  Represents the fully qualified name of the Class containing the referenced Method. |  | x

> | Constructor a| String |  Represents the Constructor signature that contains the name and its argument types. For example, for the Constructor with the `public Me(String name, Integer age)` signature, then the identifier of the method is `Me(String, Integer)`. |  | x

Reviewer: ditto previous edits to this incorrect grammatical construction.

| Target Variable a| String |  The name of a variable in which to place the operation's output. |  |

> | Target Value a| String |  An expression to evaluate against the operation's output, and to store the outcome of that expression in the target variable. |  #[payload] |

Reviewer: ditto prev edits

|===

==== Output

[cols=".^50%,.^50%"]
|===
| *Type* a| Any
|===

==== Throws

* JAVA:ARGUMENTS_MISMATCH
* JAVA:CLASS_NOT_FOUND
* JAVA:NO_SUCH_CONSTRUCTOR
* JAVA:NOT_INSTANTIABLE_TYPE

[[validateType]]
=== Validate Type
`<java:validate-type>`

> Validate that an instance is an `instanceof` a class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Validate that an instance is an `instanceof` class.
```

==== Parameters

[%header,cols="20s,20a,35a,20a,5a"]
|===
| Name | Type | Description | Default Value | Required
| Class a| String |  |  |

> | Instance a| Any |  The object whose type is expected to be an instanceof of a class. |  | x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Instance a| Any |  The object whose type is expected to be an instance of a class. |  | x
```

> | Accept Subtypes a| Boolean |  Whether or not to accept subtypes of a class, or if the instance has to be of the exact same class. |  true |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Accept Subtypes a| Boolean |  Whether to accept subtypes of a class or instances that are not of the exact same class. |  true |
```
